Add good practices page for secrets (#34291)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/security/secrets-good-practices.md

also follow the other guidelines in
[RBAC good practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices).

- **Components**: Restrict `watch` or `list` access to only the most
  privileged, system-level components. Only grant `get` access for Secrets if
  the component's normal behavior requires it.
- **Humans**: Restrict `get`, `watch`, or `list` access to Secrets. Only allow
  cluster admistrators to access `etcd`. This includes read-only access. For
  more complex access control, such as restricting access to Secrets with
  specific annotations, consider using third-party authorization mechanisms.

{{< caution >}}
Granting `list` access to Secrets implicitly lets the subject fetch the
contents of the Secrets.
{{< /caution >}}

A user who can create a Pod that uses a Secret can also see the value of that
Secret. Even if cluster policies do not allow a user to read the Secret
directly, the same user could have access to run a Pod that then exposes the
Secret. You can detect or limit the impact caused by Secret data being exposed,
either intentionally or unintentionally, by a user with this access. Some
recommendations include:

> *  Use short-lived Secrets

Reviewer: non-blocking and for the future, we can provide strategies on using short-lived Secrets

rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).

### Configure RBAC policies for Secrets

When planning your {{<glossary_tooltip term_id="rbac" text="Role-based Access Control">}} [(RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) policies,
consider the following guidelines for `Secret` objects. You should also follow the other guidelines in [RBAC good practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices).

*  Only allow cluster administrators to access `etcd` directly. This includes
   read-only access.
*  Restrict `watch` and `list` access to only privileged, system-level
   components. 
*  Use the `resourceNames` field in your RBAC rules to restrict access to
   specific named `Secret` objects in namespaces, instead of providing access to
   all Secret objects.
*  Restrict permissions such as `get`, `patch`, `update`, `delete`, and `create`
   for `Secret` objects based on the principle of least privilege for each application.

Users who can create Pods that use a Secret, either directly or by using
Kubernetes objects such as Deployments, can also read the contents of the
Secret. The same user could then run a Pod that exposes the Secret data.

> TODO: (How to reduce this risk?)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using short lived secrets and implementing audit rules that alert on specific events like concurrent reading of secrets by a single user account, are possible ways to detect or limit the impact caused by secret data being exposed intentionally or unintentionally by a user who has access to a pod with secret data.
```

### Improve etcd management policies

`etcd` is backed by persistent storage. You should wipe or shred this backing
storage when it is no longer in use.

> If you have multiple `etcd` instances, configure SSL/TLS communication between
> the instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have multiple `etcd` instances, configure encrypted SSL/TLS communication between
the instances to protect the secret data in transit.
```

### Configure access to external Secrets

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

> You can use a third-party Secrets store provider to keep your Secrets outside

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use a third-party Secrets store providers to keep your Secrets outside
```

your cluster. The [Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI
Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/) is a DaemonSet that lets
the kubelet retrieve and mount Secrets from your external store into the Pods
that need the data.

For a list of supported providers, refer to [Providers for the Secret Store CSI
Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html#provider-for-the-secrets-store-csi-driver).

### Encrypt Secrets with an externally-managed key

> TBD

Reviewer 2: Honestly, we should not provide guidance for this usecase IMO because this is out of scope of kubernetes project.

## Developers

### Restrict Secret access to specific containers

If your Pod has multiple containers, and only one container needs access to a
specific Secret, configure the volume mount or environment variable to limit
access to the Secret. Other containers in the Pod should not have access to
Secrets that they do not need.

### Protect Secret data after reading

> After your application has read the contents of a Secret, it should not log the
> Secret data without encryption, and should not transmit the Secret data

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your application has read the contents of a Secret, it should not log the
Secret data in clear, and should not transmit the Secret data
```

elsewhere.

### Avoid sharing Secret manifests

> If you configure a Secret through a {{< glossary_tooltip text="manifest" term_id="manifest" >}}, with the secret data encoded as base64, sharing this file or checking it in to a source repository means the secret is available to everyone who can read the manifest. Base64 encoding is _not_ an encryption method, it provides no additional confidentiality over plain text.

Reviewer 2: >Base64 encoding is _not_ an encryption method, it provides no additional confidentiality over plain text.

I feel this sentence deserves it on _Caution / Warning _ block

---
reviewers:
title: Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
description: >
  Principles and practices for good Secret management for cluster administrators and application developers.

> content_type: concept

Reviewer 3: We can add a `weight` to this page

Author: I don't think I properly understand how weights work, does the weight of adjacent pages also need to change to reorder in the TOC?

Reviewer 3: Explicit weight would be desirable. By default, Hugo sort pages by name.

---

<!-- overview -->

{{<glossary_definition prepend="In Kubernetes, a Secret is an object that"
term_id="secret" length="all">}}

The following good practices are intended for both cluster administrators and
application developers. Use these guidelines to improve the security of your
sensitive information in Secret objects, as well as to more effectively manage
your Secrets.

<!-- body -->

## Cluster administrators

### Configure encryption at rest

By default, Secret objects are stored unencrypted in {{<glossary_tooltip
term_id="etcd" text="etcd">}}. You should configure encryption of your Secret
data in `etcd`. For instructions, refer to [Encrypt Secret data at
rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).

### Configure RBAC policies for Secrets

When planning your {{<glossary_tooltip term_id="rbac" text="Role-based Access Control">}} [(RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) policies,

> consider the following guidelines for `Secret` objects. You should also follow the other guidelines in [RBAC good practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
consider the following guidelines for `Secret` objects. You should also follow the other guidelines in
[RBAC good practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices).
```

- Restrict `watch` or `list` access to only the most privileged, system-level components.
- In the API server, objects (including Secrets) are persisted into

>   {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="etcd" >}}; therefore:

Reviewer 3: This doesn't warrant a bullet by itself?

- Only allow cluster admistrators to access `etcd`. This includes read-only access.

A user who can create a Pod that uses a Secret can also see the value of that Secret. Even
if cluster policies do not allow a user to read the Secret directly, the same user could
have access to run a Pod that then exposes the Secret. You can detect or limit the impact
caused by Secret data being exposed, either intentionally or unintentionally, by a user with
this access. Some recommendations include:

*  Use short-lived Secrets
*  Implement audit rules that alert on specific events, such as concurrent reading of
   multiple Secrets by a single user

### Improve etcd management policies

Consider wiping or shredding the durable storage used by `etcd` once it is
no longer in use.

If there are multiple `etcd` instances, configure encrypted SSL/TLS communication
between the instances to protect the Secret data in transit.

### Configure access to external Secrets

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

You can use third-party Secrets store providers to keep your Secrets outside

> your cluster. The [Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI
> Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/) is a DaemonSet that lets

Reviewer 3: Please always keep a link on the same line so that our tools can detect dangling links.

```suggestion
your cluster. The [Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/)
is a DaemonSet that lets
```

the kubelet retrieve and mount Secrets from your external store into the Pods
that need the data.

> For a list of supported providers, refer to [Providers for the Secret Store CSI
> Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html#provider-for-the-secrets-store-csi-driver).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a list of supported providers, refer to
[Providers for the Secret Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html#provider-for-the-secrets-store-csi-driver).
```

content_type: concept
weight: 70
---

<!-- overview -->

{{<glossary_definition prepend="In Kubernetes, a Secret is an object that"
term_id="secret" length="all">}}

The following good practices are intended for both cluster administrators and
application developers. Use these guidelines to improve the security of your
sensitive information in Secret objects, as well as to more effectively manage
your Secrets.

<!-- body -->

## Cluster administrators

### Configure encryption at rest

By default, Secret objects are stored unencrypted in {{<glossary_tooltip
term_id="etcd" text="etcd">}}. You should configure encryption of your Secret
data in `etcd`. For instructions, refer to
[Encrypt Secret Data at Rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).

### Configure RBAC policies for Secrets

When planning your {{<glossary_tooltip term_id="rbac" text="Role-based Access Control">}} [(RBAC)](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) policies,
consider the following guidelines for `Secret` objects. You should also follow the other guidelines in
[RBAC good practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices).

> - Restrict `watch` or `list` access to only the most privileged, system-level
>   components.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For components, restrict **watch** or **list** access to only the most privileged,
  system-level components.
  Only grant **get** access for Secrets where this is justified by the component's normal
  behavior.
- For human users, restrict access to **get**, **watch** or **list** Secrets. Consider
  using third party authorization mechanisms if you need to implement fine-grained
  restrictions (for example: allowing admins to read any Secret, except for Secrets
  that you annotated as `confidential.example/reads-prohibited`).
```

- Only allow cluster admistrators to access `etcd`. This includes read-only access.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

{{< caution >}}
Access to **list** Secrets implies access to fetch the contents of those Secrets.
{{< /caution >}}

```

A user who can create a Pod that uses a Secret can also see the value of that
Secret. Even if cluster policies do not allow a user to read the Secret
directly, the same user could have access to run a Pod that then exposes the
Secret. You can detect or limit the impact caused by Secret data being exposed,
either intentionally or unintentionally, by a user with this access. Some
recommendations include:

*  Use short-lived Secrets
*  Implement audit rules that alert on specific events, such as concurrent
   reading of multiple Secrets by a single user

### Improve etcd management policies

> Consider wiping ot shredding the durable storage used by `etcd` once it is

Reviewer: typo?
```suggestion
Consider wiping or shredding the durable storage used by `etcd` once it is
```

Author: I can't believe I did this, thank you Rey

no longer in use.

If there are multiple `etcd` instances, configure encrypted SSL/TLS
communication between the instances to protect the Secret data in transit.

### Configure access to external Secrets

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

> You can use third-party Secrets store providers to keep your Secrets outside
> your cluster. The [Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/)
> is a DaemonSet that lets the kubelet retrieve and mount Secrets from your external store into the Pods that need the data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can use third-party secrets store providers to keep your confidential data
outside your cluster, and then enable Pods to access that secret information.
The [Kubernetes Secrets Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/)
is a DaemonSet that lets the kubelet retrieve secret information from your
external store(s), and present that secret information as a volume mounted into
specific Pods that you authorise to access that data.
```
?

Reviewer 5: @shannonxtreme , what do you think about the suggestion?

For a list of supported providers, refer to
[Providers for the Secret Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/concepts.html#provider-for-the-secrets-store-csi-driver).

## Developers

> 

Reviewer 5: Can you provide a one line sentence to introduce the 'Developers' section (what is this section about)?

### Restrict Secret access to specific containers

If you are defining multiple containers in a Pod, and only one of those
containers needs access to a Secret, define the volume mount or environment
variable configuration so that the other containers do not have access to that
Secret.

### Protect Secret data after reading

Applications still need to protect the value of confidential information after
reading it from an environment variable or volume. For example, your
application must avoid logging the secret data in the clear or transmitting it
to an untrusted party.

### Avoid sharing Secret manifests

If you configure a Secret through a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="manifest" term_id="manifest" >}}, with the secret
data encoded as base64, sharing this file or checking it in to a source

> repository means the secret is available to everyone who can read the manifest.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
repository means the confidential data is available to everyone who
can read the manifest.
```
